# Analyzing Voter Challenges in the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election: A Study on Partisan Voting Difficulties Using ANES Time Series Data 

The 2020 presidential election in the United States had about 160 million Americans cast their ballots in support of their preferred candidate. The election’s increased voter turnout, combined with changing demographics can have a profound impact on future elections. The rising growth rate of nonwhite ethnic groups and of college-educated younger voters has shrunk the “non-college white” population to less than two-fifths of the voter population, a key Republican voter class. As a response to the loss in the 2020 election, Republican lawmakers have enacted a number of voting restrictions laws that may exacerbate current difficulties in voting. In light of these recent changes to voting policies in the US and considering the recent evolutions in voting behavior, we seek to understand the following research question:

* Did Democrat voters or Republican voters experience more difficulty voting in the 2020 election?

The answer to this question provided context for these recent changes to voting laws and the impact it may have on a voter of a particular party. It also provided useful information for political scientists and for local and federal government bodies to understand the partisan challenges to voting during the 2020 election.
To answer this question, we analyzed data from the 2020 American National Election Studies (ANES) Time Series Study. Our study found that surveyed Democrats did experience more difficulty voting than Republicans in the 2020 election. These results are important for understanding disparities between voters of the country’s two major political parties. While this study focused on the difficulty experienced by those who actually voted, future research could examine the extent to which voter turnout is influenced by this kind of difficulty.